# BREAST-CANCER-CLASSIFICATION
BREAST CANCER DETECTION USING DIFFERENT CLASSIFIER MODELS

ABSTRACT
Breast cancer is a disease that stems from the uncontrollable increase in the cells situated in the breast region. This cancer occurs most frequently in women and very rarely in men, accounting for a large percentage of cancers affecting people today. Most of the constitutions of breast cancer patients happen to be women, and even though a lot of awareness is being created to shed light on it, there is still so much to be done to increase proactivity. The early detection of abnormally growing or maturing cells is a critical step forward in the treatment process to enable doctors and physicians to save time, reduce the severity, and in extreme cases, prevent fatal endings. This paper builds a classification model for different breast cancer cell samples. The plan for approaching the problem is to categorize and correctly predict the diagnosis of breast cancer data, whether they are malignant or benign. To do this efficiently to the highest degree, we would use different traditional machine learning algorithms and a multilayer neural network to develop models and generate comparisons amongst them through hyperparameter tuning and alterations. Our model's accuracy will help detect cancer cells in patients with the recorded data. The initial results at this stage show that the classifier model, given the dataset's features, does an excellent job in classifying the cells and would help, being used hand in hand with actual experts to help deduce the probability of a patient having breast cancer.
